# SOCEM
(Strength of Crops Extrapolation Machine)
This repository includes software tools and hardware components that are intrinsic to the functionality of the SOCEM.
Also included is raw data and compiled results generated by the SOCEM.
The SOCEM has been validated, and now development continues for improving operation.

**The SOCEM and the flexural rigidity analysis method are patented.**
The patent title is: APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR HIGH THROUGHPUT MEASUREMENT OF LODGING RESISTANCE IN CROPS.
US patent application 17/465,623. Filed September 2, 2021.
Inventors: Robertson D.J., Stubbs C., Bebee A., Bennett G.C.

**images.zip:** This .zip file contains many .PNG and .JPG files which display the nature of the SOCEM device. Details include field use, component detail, software insight, and 3D renderings of SOCEM results.  

**objects3D.zip:** This .zip file contains .FBX files that retain a color-gradient and can be viewed using Microsoft 3D Viewer or a similar application. These are 3D models that provide insight into SOCEM performance by showing all 2021 data. There is a file for raw force data and a file for processed flexural rigidity data.

**CAD_3Dprint.zip:** This .zip file contains .STL and .SLDPRT files for the console screen container of the SOCEM, as well as additional accessories.

**CAD_lasercutWood.zip:** This .zip file contains .DXF and .SLDPRT files for the keyboard trap, Arduino storage box, and SOCEM console desktop stand. Text readme files are included with instructions. Note that dimensions of the Solidworks files are associated with text files, via the Solidworks equation manager.

**code_Arduino_SOCEM.zip:** This .zip file contains folders with the full arduino code for the Arduino Uno. Some libraries may need to be downloaded to run the code. Needed Libraries and the version of them used (some may not be the lastest versions) can be found as comments in the first few rows of the Main Arduino code. 

**code_Python_StemBerry_dataCollectionInterface.zip:** This .zip file contrains Python code (.py files) that can run on Linux or Windows operating systems to collect force data and input metadata, given a serial connection with an Arduino Uno has been flashed with the Arduino code above. StemBerry is highly developed for specific use cases. The EI_Interaction_Fx.py module EI_No_Interaction_Fx.py module must be in the folder alongside the StemBerry_v105.py script. The StemBerry script has many user input variables, at the top of the script, which can be altered for ideal use. Necessary Python libraries include: numpy, pandas, matplotlib, and pyserial.

**code_Python_dataAnalysis2020-2021.zip:** This.zip file contains Python code (.py files) which were used to process raw data in 2020 and 2021. These tools have been supplanted by the current version of StemBerry, which performs analysis immediately following data collection.

**code_MATLAB_dataImport_dataVisualization.zip:** These .zip files contain MATLAB code (.m files) used in 2020, 2021, and 2022 to import and analyze SOCEM data. These software tools are appropriate for use with the data found in **dataRaw** .zip files. These tools were used to generated the **compiled** data found in this repository. In the future, with improvements in the **StemBerry** Python interface, only **spreadsheetsToTable_v3.m** should be necessary. This applies to 2022 data.

**code_MATLAB_STLgeneration.zip & code_Python_Blender_3Dmodeling.zip:** These .zip files contain code that can be used to generate 3D rendering of SOCEM data, as shown in **objects3D.zip**. The MATLAB scripts generate STL files, which are imported by Python and then distributed in three dimensions using Blender Python, with labels. A color gradient is applied, the procedural colors are baked, and then an FBX file is exported. 

**InstronMethods.zip:** This .zip file contains .im_ccyclic files which are meant to be run on BlueHill Instron data collection software, to determine the methods of automated operation for specimen testing. These methods have been optimized for testing wheat stems for hysteresis and for observing breakage, and applications extend beyond the scope of this project.

**dataRaw_SOCEM_2020.zip**,**dataRaw_SOCEM_2021_coreExperiment.zip**,**dataRaw_SOCEM_2022.zip**,**dataRaw_Instron_2020.zip**,**dataRaw_Instron_2021.zip:** Due to size limitations, this raw data from the SOCEM in the field (.csv and .xlsx files) and from three-point bending testing in the labratory (.csv files) is distributed across in separate .zip files.

**dataCompiled_2020.zip**,**dataCompiled_2021_mat.zip**,**dataCompiled_2021_csv,pdf,zip.zip:** Due to size limitations, this compiled data (.mat,.csv,.pdf,.xlsx files) from the SOCEM and the Instron is distributed across separate .zip files.

**thesis_ValidateSOCEM_Bennett_10142022.pdf:** A full pdf copy of my thesis which gives an overview of the backgroud for the device, step by step building instructions, and an analysis/discussion of results.   
